README (created Dec 25th, 2015 by maleos)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

**1. OVERVIEW**

The file run_analysis.R is used to combine several datasets with data collected from accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone into one, tidy dataset ready for analysis.The data stem from the UCI Human Activity Recogniction Using Smartphones Project and can be accessed through this URL:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

README.txt of the dataset provides (in the folder "UCI HAR Dataset"") a detailed description of the raw data and how they were generated. In brief, the raw data consist of training and test data measured across 561 variables generated by 30 experimental subjects in 6 different activities.

The run_analysis.R script in this repo combines the test and the training data for a subset of measurements (the 79 columns containing mean and standard deviation values) into one data frame. Furthermore, it...

...renames the columns with meaningful variable names,

...adds a column to the consolidated data containing an identifier of the subject which recorded the measurement, and

... adds a column with labels which identifying which activity was recorded.

As main output, the script generates a variable *X_combined* which contains this data frame. In addition, the script generates a variable called *X_summary*, which displays the mean of each variable in the subset grouped by each activity and by each experimental subject. 



**2. WHAT DOES THE SCRIPT DO?**

See codebook.md in this repo for more information. 



**3. HOW TO RUN THE ANALYSIS**

1. Download the raw dataset and unzip it to a location of choice. 

2. Download the script ("run_analysis.R") and place it into the same directory where you have unzipped the UCI HAR folder of the data set to. Set this folder to be your working directory.

3. Before running run_analysis.R, make sure you have the dplyr package installed (it's loaded automatically by the script). 

4. Run the script using the command source("run_analysis.R").

5. Once the script has finished running, the summarised data can be displayed by typing "X" (this is the name of the summary dataset). A file called "tidydata.txt"" is automatically created and placed in the working directory.

